MITRE ATT&CK for ICS features different tactics, which are discussed below.

▪ Initial Access 

It refers to the methods or techniques that an attacker can employ to establish initial access within the targeted ICS environment.
An attacker can compromise different OT assets, websites, IT resources, and other external services to gain access to the ICS environment. 

Listed below are some of the techniques used by an attacker to gain initial access: 

o Drive-by compromise: 
An attacker can gain access to the OT system by exploiting the target user’s web browser by tricking them into visiting a compromised website during a normal browsing session.

o Exploiting a public-facing software application: 
An attacker exploits the known vulnerabilities of an Internet-facing application to gain access to an OT network. Such applications can be used for remote monitoring and management.

o Exploiting remote services: 
An attacker can manipulate known vulnerabilities of an application by leveraging error messages generated by the OS, program, or the kernel to perform further attacks on the remote services.


▪ Execution 

Execution refers to an attacker’s attempt to execute malicious code, manipulate data, or perform other system functions through illegitimate approaches. 

Attackers use different techniques to run malicious code within a device or asset in an ICT environment. 

Some of the techniques associated with this stage are as follows:
o Changing the operating mode: 
An attacker gains additional access to various OT functionalities by manipulating the operating modes of a controller within the infrastructure, e.g., program download.

o Command-line interface (CLI): 
An attacker uses the CLI to run various malicious commands and communicate with an OT system. 
It allows them to install and run different malicious programs and perform malicious operations without being detected


▪ Persistence
Attackers employ persistence procedures to retain access within the ICS environment, even if the compromised device is restarted or the communication is interrupted.

The following are some of the techniques that can be used by an attacker at this stage.
o Modifying a program:
An attacker abuses a controller in an OT system by changing or attaching a program to it. 
It allows changing the behavior of how the controller communicates with other devices or processes within that environment.

o Module firmware:
A malicious firmware can be inserted into the hardware devices by an attacker to maintain accessibility on the other devices or systems and hold footprints for long-term attacks.

o Project file infection:
Attackers use malicious code to infect file dependencies such as objects or variables required for the functioning of programmable logic controllers (PLCs). 
Attackers often attempt to abuse the default functions of PLC


Privilege Escalation
Privilege escalation allows an attacker to achieve higher-level access and authorizations to perform further malicious activities on an ICS system or network. 

Some of the techniques that can be used by an attacker to escalate privileges are as follows.
o Exploiting software:
Attackers can take advantage of known software vulnerabilities by abusing any programming errors to elevate privileges.

o Hooking:
It allows attackers to hook into the APIs of different processes for redirecting and calling them to elevate privileges.


▪ Evasion
Attackers use this tactic to evade conventional defense mechanisms throughout their operations. 

Some of the techniques used to evade detection are as follows.
o Removing the indicators: 
Potential attack indicators are removed from a host to avoid detection and cover the attack footprints

o Rootkits:
An attacker can install rootkits to avoid detection by hiding different services, connections, and other system drivers.

o Changing the operator mode: 
The attackers can modify a controller’s operating mode to access and control different system functionalities.


▪ Discovery
Discovery is the process of gaining information about an ICS environment to assess and identify target assets. 

The following are some of the techniques that can be used to gain information about the ICS environment.
o Enumerating the network connection:
Attackers can gain information about the communication patterns of different network devices.

o Network sniffing:
An attacker can capture or monitor network information such as the protocol used, destination and source addresses, and other important information.

o Identifying remote systems: 
An attacker finds the details of other systems on the network through their hostnames, IP addresses, or other details to perform malicious activities.


▪ Lateral Movement
Attackers attempt to make additional movements across the target ICS environment by leveraging the existing access. 

Some of the techniques used by attackers for lateral movement are as follows.
o Default credentials:
An attacker can leverage the in-built credentials of the control systems to perform administrative tasks.

o Program download:
An attacker can transmit a user program within a controller by executing a program download.

o Remote services:
An attacker can abuse the remote services to make lateral movements within the network assets and components.


▪ Collection 
Collection refers to various methods that an attacker uses to gather information and gain knowledge regarding the data and domains of the ICS infrastructure.

An attacker can use the following techniques to gather information.
o Automated collection:
An attacker can use various tools or scripts to collect the information of an ICS environment automatically.

o Information repositories:
Attackers can gain sensitive information such as layouts of a control system and specifications by targeting the information repositories.

o I/O image:
The attackers can access the memory by obtaining the I/O image of a PLC for performing further malicious activities


▪ Command and Control
An attacker attempts to deactivate, control, or exploit the physical control processes within the target ICS environment using command and control.

Some of the techniques used for command and control are as follows.
o Frequently used ports: 
An attacker can use popular ports such as 80 and 443 to communicate and evade the conventional detection mechanisms.

o Connection proxy:
Attackers can control the traffic of the target network across the ICS environment using a connection proxy.

o Standard application-layer protocol:
Attackers can use different application-layer protocols such as HTTPS, Telnet, and Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) to hide their actions and establish control over the systems


▪ Inhibit Response Function
The inhibition of response function refers to the different ways an attacker attempts to thwart reactions against any security event such as hazard or failure. 

Some of the techniques associated with this tactic are as follows.
o Activate firmware update mode:
An attacker can activate the firmware update mode and thwart normal response functionalities during a security event.

o Block command messages: 
An attacker can block various commands or instruction messages before they reach the control systems.

o Block reporting messages:
An attacker can stop or disrupt the reporting messages from the industrial systems and prevent them from reaching their destination, allowing the attacker to hide their activities.


▪ Impair Process Control
Attackers use this tactic to disable, exploit, or control the physical control processes in the target environment. 

Some of the techniques used for this tactic are as follows.
o I/O brute-forcing:
Attackers can brute-force the I/O addresses to control a process functionality without targeting a particular interface.

o Alter the parameters: 
An attacker can manipulate the control systems by altering their instruction parameters through appropriate programming.

o Module firmware:
An attacker can re-program a device by injecting malicious firmware into it and thereby prepare it to perform other malicious tasks


▪ Impact
Impact refers to the techniques used by an attacker to damage, disrupt, or gain control of the data and systems of the targeted ICS environment and its surroundings. 

Some of the techniques used for this tactic are as follows.
o Damage to property:
An attacker can cause heavy damage to the property and its surrounding environments by performing various attacks on the ICS.

o Loss of availability:
Attackers can disrupt or hamper the industrial processes to make them unresponsive to the associated connections.

o Denial of control: 
An attacker can manipulate the controls to disrupt the communications between the operators and the process controls.








