Attackers perform a side-channel attack by monitoring physical implementation of a target system to obtain critical information. 

Attackers use two techniques, namely timing analysis, and power analysis to perform side-channel attacks on the target OT systems.

The timing-analysis attack is based on the amount of time taken by the device to execute different computations.

The power analysis attack is based on the change in power consumption during a cryptographic operation. ICS systems are often vulnerable to these two side-channel attacks


▪ Timing Analysis 
Passwords are often transmitted through a serial channel. Attackers employ a loop strategy to recover these passwords. 

They use one character at a time to check whether the first character entered is correct; if so, the loop continues for consecutive characters.If not, the loop terminates.

Attackers check how much time the device is taking to finish one complete password authentication process, through which they can determine how many characters entered are correct.

The timing-based attacks can be easily detected and blocked.


▪ Power Analysis
Power-analysis attacks are difficult to detect; the attacked device can operate even after being infected. 

Therefore, attackers often prefer to perform a power-analysis attack rather than a timing-based one to recover the sensitive information.

This attack is performed observing the change in power consumption of semiconductors during clock cycles. 

The oscilloscope observes the time slot between two pulses via the probe. The power profile formed by the signals can leave a clue as to in what way the data is being processed.


Attackers can use the retrieved keys to make changes in the configuration of analyzed devices. 

As these systems are mostly utilized in protecting the power grids, the configuration changes can have devastating impacts. 

Through these changes, attackers can hinder the system process or use it to transfer incorrect data to the operator. 

These devices are often distributed and handled by a centralized system. Incorrect data from one device can impact major parts of the OT network.










