The Purdue model is derived from the Purdue Enterprise Reference Architecture (PERA) model, which is a widely used to describe internal connections and dependencies of important components in the ICS networks

It consists of three zones:
Manufacturing zone (OT) and Enterprise zone (IT) separated by a Demilitarized zone (DMZ). The three zones are further divided into several operational levels

The Purdue model is derived from the Purdue Enterprise Reference Architecture (PERA) model, which is a widely used conceptual model that describes the internal connections and dependencies of important components in ICS networks. 

The Purdue model is also known as the Industrial Automation and Control System reference model.


The Purdue model consists of three zones:
the manufacturing zone (OT) and enterprise zone (IT), separated by a demilitarized zone (DMZ), which is used to restrict direct communication between the OT and IT systems. 

The intention behind adding this extra layer is to confine the network or system compromises within this layer and provide uninterrupted production.


▪ Enterprise Zone (IT Systems)
The enterprise security zone is a part of IT, in which supply-chain management and scheduling are performed using business systems such as SAP and ERP.
It also locates the data centers, users, and cloud access. The enterprise zone consists of two levels.

o Level 5 (Enterprise Network)
This is a corporate level network where business operations such as B2B (business-to-business) and B2C (business-to-customer) services are performed. 
Internet connectivity and management can be handled at this level. 
The enterprise network systems also accumulate data from all the subsystems located at the individual plants to report the inventory and overall production status.

o Level 4 (Business Logistics Systems)
All the IT systems supporting the production process in the plant lie at this level.
Managing schedules, planning, and other logistics of the manufacturing operations are performed here.
Level 4 systems include application servers, file servers, database servers, supervising systems, email clients, etc.

▪ Manufacturing Zone (OT Systems)
All the devices, networks, control, and monitoring systems reside in this zone.
The manufacturing zone consists of four levels. 

o Level 3 (Operational Systems/Site Operations)
In this level, the production management, individual plant monitoring, and control functions are defined. roduction workflows and output of the desired product are ensured at this level. 
Production management includes plant performance management systems, production scheduling, batch management, quality assurance, data historians, manufacturing execution/operation management systems (MES/MOMS), laboratories, and process optimization.
Production details from lower levels are collected here and can then be transferred to higher levels or can be instructed by higher-level systems.

o Level 2 (Control Systems/Area Supervisory Controls)
Supervising, monitoring, and controlling the physical process is carried out at this level. 
The control systems can be DCSs, SCADA software, Human–Machine Interfaces (HMIs), real-time software, and other supervisory control systems such as engineering works and PLC line control.

o Level 1 (Basic Controls/Intelligent Devices)
Analyzation and alteration of the physical process can be done at this level.
The operations in basic control include “start motors,” “open valves,” “move actuators,” etc. Level 1 systems include analyzers, process sensors, and other instrumentation systems such as Intelligent Electronic Devices (IEDs), PLCs, RTUs, Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) controllers, Equipment Under Control (EUC), and Variable

o Level 0 (Physical Process)
In this level, the actual physical process is defined, and the product is manufactured.
Higher levels control and monitor operations at this level; therefore, this layer is also referred to as Equipment Under Control (EUC). 
Level 0 systems include devices, sensors (e.g., speed, temperature, pressure), actuators, or other industrial equipment used to carry out the manufacturing or industrial operations. 
A minor error in any of the devices at this level can affect overall operations


▪ Industrial Demilitarized Zone (IDMZ)
The demilitarized zone is a barrier between the manufacturing zone (OT systems) and enterprise zone (IT systems) that enables a secure network connection between the two systems. 

The zone is created to inspect overall architecture. 

If any errors or intrusions compromise the working systems, the IDMZ holds the error and allows production to be continued without interruption. 

IDMZ systems include Microsoft domain controllers, database replication servers, and proxy servers





